Message contracts upgrade guidance (#5621)
Particular/docs.particular.net: nservicebus/upgrades/7to8/message-contracts.md

---
title: Upgrading message contracts from Version 7 to 8
summary: Instructions on how to upgrade shared message contracts from NServiceBus version 7 to version 8.
reviewed: 2022-02-02
component: Core
isUpgradeGuide: true
upgradeGuideCoreVersions:
 - 7
 - 8
---

> Since NServiceBus version 8 no longer supports .NET Standard, message contract assemblies refrencing NServiceBus might need to be updated. This guidance outlines possible approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NServiceBus version 8 does not support .NET Standard as a framework target. Therefore, message contract assemblies that target `netstandard2.0` and that reference NServiceBus must be updated. This guidance outlines possible approaches.
```

> NServiceBus version 8 does not support .NET Standard as a framework target. Therefore, message contract assemblies that target `netstandard2.0` and that reference NServiceBus must be updated. This guidance outlines possible approaches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NServiceBus version 8 does not support .NET Standard as a target framework. Therefore, message contract assemblies that target `netstandard2.0` and reference NServiceBus must be updated. This guidance outlines possible approaches.
```

> Note: When using [unobtrusive mode](TODO), the contracts assembly doesn't require a reference to NServiceBus and therefore is not affected. Unobtrusive message contracts can continue to target .NET Standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: When using [unobtrusive mode](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/messaging/unobtrusive-mode), the contracts assembly doesn't require a reference to NServiceBus and therefore is not affected. Unobtrusive message contracts can continue to target .NET Standard.
```

> ## Change to specifc target Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change to specific target Platform
```

> Note: When using [unobtrusive mode](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/messaging/unobtrusive-mode), the contracts assembly doesn't require a reference to NServiceBus and therefore is not affected. Unobtrusive message contracts can continue to target .NET Standard.

Reviewer 2: Isn't it better to put this note as the very first sentence? One starts reading, and if they are using the unobtrusive mode they just skip this guidance.

Author: hm yeah good point. Not sure which approach is visually better. Maybe we should also make it a warning or so?

Reviewer: I think it's okay here. First sentence sets the stage for the guidance, second one gives you a condition that says read no further

> If all endpoints are targeting the same platform (e.g. .NET Core 3.1), the message contracts assembly can be changed to be aligned with all other endpoint projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all endpoints are targeting the same platform (e.g. .NET Core 3.1), the message contracts assembly can be changed to align with all other endpoint projects.
```

> If all endpoints are targeting the same platform (e.g. .NET Core 3.1), the message contracts assembly can be changed to align with all other endpoint projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If all endpoints target the same platform (e.g., .NET Core 3.1), the message contracts assembly can be changed accordingly to align with all other endpoint projects.
```

Author: is this common to use a comma after `e.g.`?

Reviewer 2: yes, at least in Italian and according to Grammarly too

Reviewer: Yeah, it's not necessary in British English but we follow American standards so unfortunately we need it.

## Multi-targeting

> If endpoints sharing a contracts assembly are targeting different platforms and frameworks (e.g. .NET Framework 4.8 and .NET Core 3.1), the target assembly can be changed to use [multi-targeting](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/library-guidance/cross-platform-targeting#multi-targeting) by replacing the `TargetFramwork` element with the `TargetFrameworks` element in the `.csproj` settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If endpoints that share a common contracts assembly target different platforms and frameworks (e.g. both .NET Framework 4.8 and .NET Core 3.1), the target assembly can use [multi-targeting](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/library-guidance/cross-platform-targeting#multi-targeting) by replacing the `TargetFramwork` element with the `TargetFrameworks` element in the `.csproj` settings:
```

> If endpoints that share a common contracts assembly target different platforms and frameworks (e.g. both .NET Framework 4.8 and .NET Core 3.1), the target assembly can use [multi-targeting](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/library-guidance/cross-platform-targeting#multi-targeting) by replacing the `TargetFramwork` element with the `TargetFrameworks` element in the `.csproj` settings:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If endpoints that share a common contracts assembly target different platforms and frameworks (e.g. both .NET Framework 4.8 and .NET Core 3.1), the target assembly can use [multi-targeting](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/library-guidance/cross-platform-targeting#multi-targeting) by replacing the `TargetFramwork` element with the `TargetFrameworks` (note the plural) element in the `.csproj` settings:
```

Not sure it's worth it. I always miss that, though.

Author: that's why I added both elements in the text, but I guess it wouldn't hurt to mention this even more explicitly.

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
  <PropertyGroup>
    <!-- Typically, it is sufficient to only list the lowest version needed for each platform -->
    <TargetFrameworks>net48;netcoreapp3.1</TargetFrameworks>
  </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```

> ## Migration

Reviewer: This seems like more general advice that could apply outside of the 7 -> 8 migration, yesno?

Author: yes probably something that should be part of the "evolving message contracts" page and we can link to that. I didn't want to touch both files in the same PR though. maybe we need to start with the other one first?

Reviewer 2: I don't see the problem of including that file in this PR. However, I agree that it makes sense to move the section there.

> When upgrading endpoints one-by-one, message contracts might need to work across endpoints targeting different versions of NServiceBus. There are multiple ways to handle this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading endpoints one-by-one, message contracts might need to work across endpoints targeting different versions of NServiceBus. There are several ways to handle this:
```

> When upgrading endpoints one-by-one, message contracts might need to work across endpoints targeting different versions of NServiceBus. There are several ways to handle this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When upgrading endpoints one by one, message contracts might need to work across endpoints targeting different versions of NServiceBus. There are several ways to handle this.
```

### Backwards compatiblity

> NServiceBus version 8 can reference message contracts that are referencing older versions of NServiceBus. Therefore, message contract assemblies can remain targeting NServiceBus version 7 until all endpoints have been successfully upgraded to version 8. This approach allows to use the same message contracts assembly version across all endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NServiceBus version 8 can reference message contracts that are referencing older versions of NServiceBus. Therefore, message contract assemblies can remain targeting NServiceBus version 7 until all endpoints have been successfully upgraded to version 8. This approach allows all endpoints to use the same message contracts assembly version.
```

> NServiceBus version 8 can reference message contracts that are referencing older versions of NServiceBus. Therefore, message contract assemblies can remain targeting NServiceBus version 7 until all endpoints have been successfully upgraded to version 8. This approach allows all endpoints to use the same message contracts assembly version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NServiceBus version 8 can reference message contracts referencing older versions of NServiceBus. Therefore, message contract assemblies can remain targeting NServiceBus version 7 until all endpoints have been successfully upgraded to version 8. This approach allows all endpoints to use the same message contracts assembly version.
```

### Release new contracts assembly

> When creating a new version of the contracts assembly (deploying it as a NuGet package or directly as a DLL file), the messages remain wire-level compatible as long as the message contract itself is not changed. See the [evolving message contracts](TODO) documentation for more information on updating message contracts. This approach can be chosen if message contract changes don't need to be propoagated to endpoints that remain on the old version of the message contract assembly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying a new version of the contracts assembly (e.g. as a NuGet package or directly as a DLL file), the messages remain wire-level compatible as long as the message contract itself is not changed. See the [evolving message contracts](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/messaging/evolving-contracts) documentation for more information on updating message contracts. This approach can be chosen if message contract changes don't need to propagate to endpoints that remain on the old version of the message contract assembly.
```

> When deploying a new version of the contracts assembly (e.g. as a NuGet package or directly as a DLL file), the messages remain wire-level compatible as long as the message contract itself is not changed. See the [evolving message contracts](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/messaging/evolving-contracts) documentation for more information on updating message contracts. This approach can be chosen if message contract changes don't need to propagate to endpoints that remain on the old version of the message contract assembly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When deploying a new version of the contracts assembly (e.g., as a NuGet package or directly as a DLL file), the messages remain wire-level compatible as long as the message contract itself is not changed. See the [evolving message contracts](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/messaging/evolving-contracts) documentation for more information on updating message contracts. This approach can be chosen if message contract changes don't need to propagate to endpoints that remain on the old version of the message contract assembly.
```

> Note: It is recommended to maintain a stable assembly-version across different message contract versions. Indicate the contract version information via the NuGet package version or the file-version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: It is recommended to maintain a stable assembly version across different message contract versions. Indicate the contract version information via the NuGet package version or the file-version.
```

I think this needs more explanation.

> maintain a stable assembly version

as opposed to what? An assembly that changes often? If so, what are the consequences of having a volatile shared contracts assembly?

> ## Need help?

Reviewer: Perhaps bring in [this section](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/upgrades/#shared-codebases)

Author: not sure how this section would relate to this specific title? can you make a suggestion or just edit the document directly the way you think would make sense?

> Note: It is recommended to maintain a stable assembly version across different message contract versions. Indicate the contract version information via the NuGet package version or the file-version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: It is recommended to maintain a stable assembly version across different message contract versions. Instead, use the NuGet package version or the file version to signal changes to the contract.
```

Author: I kinda wanted to avoid to use instead here, since the first sentence says "its recommended to...." which does feel weird when connecting it with an "instead"

Reviewer: Agreed. We aren't saying "Don't do this. Instead, do this" in this paragraph. Some options:

```suggestion
Note: It is recommended to maintain a stable assembly version across different message contract versions, via the NuGet package version or the file version.
```

or

```suggestion
Note: It is recommended to maintain a stable assembly version across different message contract versions. Use the NuGet package version or the file-version of the shared contract assembly to indicate the assembly's version number.
```
